oac_bylaws.markdown, before:

Olin Alumni Council By-Laws


Article I: Name
===============

The name of the organization shall be known as the Olin Alumni Council (OAC) of the Franklin W. Olin College of Engineering Alumni Association. 


Article II: Purpose
===================

As stated in the OAC Charter, the purpose of the OAC is to serve as the organizing body for Olin’s Alumni Association (OAA), which is open to all students who have been enrolled in a full-time degree program at Franklin W. Olin College of Engineering. The Olin Alumni Council fosters a spirit of association and fellowship among members and helps advance the mission of the College through its activities. 


Article III: Membership
=======================

Section I: Eligibility
----------------------
Any person who has been enrolled in a full-time degree program at Olin College is eligible to be elected into the OAC.

Section II: Composition 
-----------------------
1. The OAC is composed of two representatives from each graduating class in addition to an Executive Board.
1. The OAC must ensure that each class has a Class Gift Captain to interface with the College on matters pertaining to the Class Gift. This role is not a voting member of the OAC. This role may be filled by an elected Class Representative or by another member of the OAA.
1. The OAC must ensure that at least two Reunion Representatives are chosen at least 18 months prior to a class’s reunion to work with the College in planning and executing the class’s reunion. This role may be filled by an elected Class Representative or by another member of the OAA.

Section III: Leadership
-----------------------
The OAC is led by an Executive Board elected by the Olin Alumni Association. Prior to the election of this Executive Board, the OAC will select an OAC representative to serve as Coordinator each year.


Article IV: Executive Board 
===========================

Section I: Composition
----------------------
1. This Board shall be comprised of five officer positions: President-elect, President, Past President, Treasurer and Secretary. This Board will be elected for the first time in the fall of 2011 at the Alumni Weekend or a similar event.
1. Prior to the election of the first Executive Board, the OAC will select an OAC member to serve as Coordinator of the OAC for the upcoming year. 
    1. This selection will occur during the Fall OAC meeting and transition will occur directly following the meeting.
    1. The Coordinator is responsible for organizing the OAC, serving as the alumni co-chair to the Alumni Relations Advisory Group (ARAG), delegating the other Executive Board responsibilities assigned below to the OAC membership, and acting as its spokesperson when appropriate.

Section II: President-elect, President, and Past President
----------------------------------------------------------
1. The President-elect will serve for three years, progressing through the positions of President-elect, President, and Past President.
1. The President-elect shall assume all duties of the President during his or her absence. 
1. The President will serve as chairperson for the OAC and OAA. 
1. The President is responsible for calling, presiding over, and creating agendas for the OAC.
1. The President is invited and encouraged to take part in the Olin College President’s Council on-campus meetings. If present at these meetings, the President is responsible for travel expenses. 
1. The Past President is the immediate past President of the OAC.
1. The Past President serves as the co-chair to the ARAG.  
1. An alumnus currently serving as one of the three Presidential officers is not permitted to run for President.

Section III: Treasurer
----------------------
1. The responsibilities of the Treasurer will include oversight of funds contributed to the Alumni Association and intended for projects or initiatives not commonly considered philanthropic to Olin College. 
1. The Treasurer will serve for two years. 
1. An alumnus can serve no more than two consecutive terms as Treasurer. 

Section IV: Secretary
---------------------
1. The responsibilities of the Secretary include recording and publishing meeting notes in a form accessible to all OAA members, and coordinating alumni communication and maintaining the alumni directory with the Office of Parent and Alumni Relations. 
1. The Secretary will serve for two years. 
1. An alumnus can serve no more than two consecutive terms as Secretary. 

Section V	
---------
Once formed, the Executive Board will serve as ex-officio alumni representatives to the ARAG.

Section VI
----------
When the College requires an alumnus for a committee or other position, they should select the alumnus in meaningful consultation with the Executive Board if possible.


Article V: Elections, Resignation and Impeachment
=================================================

Section I: Process
------------------
1. Elections will be administered by the OAC President on their designee.
1. Elections will take place by secret electronic ballot.
1. Elections will be announced and allow candidates to apply at least two weeks prior to the start of the election.
1. Elections will have voting periods of at least two weeks.
1. Regular elections will begin on the first day of classes of the academic year at Olin College.
1. Transitions between incoming and outgoing officials will occur directly following the announcement of the election results.

Section II: Class Representatives
--------------------------------
1. Initially, each set of Class Representatives will be elected by that year’s graduating seniors, in a special election beginning on the last day of classes at Olin College. Only the OAA members of the graduating class may vote in subsequent elections for that class’s Class Representatives.
1. The position of Class Representative for a given class will consist of three year terms until 15 years following the class’s graduation, at which time the terms will lengthen to 5 years.
1. There is no limit on the number of terms that a given alumnus can serve as a Class Representative. 
1. In order to impeach one of their Class Representatives, any alumnus of that class may submit an electronic impeachment petition to the OAC that bears the electronic signatures of at least 60% of the class. The impeached Class Representative is immediately removed from office.
1. Any member of the OAC may also submit a proposal to impeach a Class Representative. This must be announced to the class that elected the Representative at least two weeks prior to the vote. The class may overrule the impeachment proposal with a petition bearing electronic signatures of at least 50% of the class. A three-quarters voting quorum of the OAC is required for the impeachment vote to take place, and the member up for impeachment may not vote or be considered for quorum. Impeachment will occur if approved by at least 90% of the voting OAC members. The impeached Representative is immediately removed from office.
1. Any Class Representative may resign by submitting a letter to the OAC President.
1. If a Class Representative is impeached, resigns, is elected President, or is unable to perform his or her duties, then the OAC must organize a special election within a month of the vacancy to replace that representative. Newly elected officers will take office immediately and serve the remainder of the current term.

Section III: Executive Board
---------------------------
1. The Board shall be elected by the OAA.  
1. An alumnus can run for any open Executive Board position.  The candidate receiving the most votes as President-elect will be installed as the next President-elect and removed from the Executive Board candidate pool for any additional positions.  Next, the same will be done to select the Treasurer and finally the Secretary.  
1. Each year a new President-elect is elected. That individual will serve one year as President-elect and the subsequent two years as President, and Past President respectively. 
1. Secretary and Treasurer position for 2-year terms, which will be staggered such that they are elected during alternate years. 
1. In order to impeach a member of the Executive Board, any alumnus may submit an electronic impeachment petition to the OAC that bears the electronic signatures of at least 25% of the OAA. The impeached Executive Board member is immediately removed from office.
1. Any member of the OAC may also submit a proposal to impeach a member of the Executive Board. This must be announced to the OAA as a whole at least two weeks prior to the vote. The OAA may overrule the impeachment proposal with a petition bearing electronic signatures of at least 25% of its membership. A three-quarters voting quorum of the OAC is required for the impeachment vote to take place, and the member up for impeachment may not vote or be considered for quorum. Impeachment will occur if approved by at least two-thirds of the voting OAC members. The impeached Executive Board member is immediately removed from office.
1. Any member of the Executive Board may resign by submitting a letter to the OAC President, except for the OAC President who must submit a letter of resignation to the OAC. 
1. If a President-elect, Treasurer or Secretary is impeached, resigns, or is unable to perform his or her duties, then a special election shall be held within a month of the vacancy to replace that position. The duties of the Treasure or Secretary will be temporarily borne by the President-elect until the special election occurs. 
1. If a Past President is impeached, resigns, or is unable to perform his or her duties, the position is left vacant for the duration of the term. Any responsibilities of the Past President are delegated to the President for the duration of the term.  
1. If the President is impeached, resigns, or is unable to perform his or her duties, then the President-elect shall become President and a special election shall be held within a month of the vacancy to elect a new President-elect. Newly elected officers will take office immediately and serve the remainder of the current term.


Article VI: Meetings
====================

Section I
---------
The OAC will meet on campus once each fall in conjunction with the Alumni Weekend or a similar event, and will conduct one meeting via teleconference in the spring. It is expected that OAC members will attend the on-campus meeting. Travel expenses will be the responsibility of the members.

Section II
----------
Special meetings, telephone calls or e-mail communications will be used to conduct business outside of the spring and fall meetings mentioned above. Travel expenses will be the responsibility of the members.

Section III
-----------
The quorum for OAC meetings shall be a majority of the OAC membership.


Article VII: Decision Making / Voting
=====================================

Section I
---------
Each member of the OAC shall be entitled one vote, except for the OAC President who shall only vote in case of a tie. 

Section II
----------
The Executive Board operates on consensus. If the Executive Board cannot come to an agreement, then the issue will be brought to the OAC who will conduct a majority vote.


Article VIII: Amendments
========================

Section I
---------
Any member of the OAC may propose an amendment to the OAC Charter or By-Laws by submitting it to the OAC President. This amendment shall be presented, discussed and then voted on by the OAC at the next possible meeting. The proposed amendment must be disseminated to the OAA for comment at least two weeks prior to the meeting at which the vote is expected to occur. A two-thirds quorum of OAC members must vote in order for the vote to count. OAC members may vote in the meeting or electronically up until the time when the in-meeting vote occurs. If quorum is not achieved, the amendment must be re-introduced for a future meeting. A three-quarters majority of those voting is required to ratify the amendment. If an amendment is made, it must be announced to the OAA within one week of ratification as well as recorded in the posted OAC minutes. The amended Charter or By-Laws must also be posted in a timely manner.

Commit message:

Switch from start of classes to Alumni Weekend.

oac_bylaws.markdown, after:

Olin Alumni Council By-Laws


Article I: Name
===============

The name of the organization shall be known as the Olin Alumni Council (OAC) of the Franklin W. Olin College of Engineering Alumni Association. 


Article II: Purpose
===================

As stated in the OAC Charter, the purpose of the OAC is to serve as the organizing body for Olin’s Alumni Association (OAA), which is open to all students who have been enrolled in a full-time degree program at Franklin W. Olin College of Engineering. The Olin Alumni Council fosters a spirit of association and fellowship among members and helps advance the mission of the College through its activities. 


Article III: Membership
=======================

Section I: Eligibility
----------------------
Any person who has been enrolled in a full-time degree program at Olin College is eligible to be elected into the OAC.

Section II: Composition 
-----------------------
1. The OAC is composed of two representatives from each graduating class in addition to an Executive Board.
1. The OAC must ensure that each class has a Class Gift Captain to interface with the College on matters pertaining to the Class Gift. This role is not a voting member of the OAC. This role may be filled by an elected Class Representative or by another member of the OAA.
1. The OAC must ensure that at least two Reunion Representatives are chosen at least 18 months prior to a class’s reunion to work with the College in planning and executing the class’s reunion. This role may be filled by an elected Class Representative or by another member of the OAA.

Section III: Leadership
-----------------------
The OAC is led by an Executive Board elected by the Olin Alumni Association. Prior to the election of this Executive Board, the OAC will select an OAC representative to serve as Coordinator each year.


Article IV: Executive Board 
===========================

Section I: Composition
----------------------
1. This Board shall be comprised of five officer positions: President-elect, President, Past President, Treasurer and Secretary. This Board will be elected for the first time in the fall of 2011 at the Alumni Weekend or a similar event.
1. Prior to the election of the first Executive Board, the OAC will select an OAC member to serve as Coordinator of the OAC for the upcoming year. 
    1. This selection will occur during the Fall OAC meeting and transition will occur directly following the meeting.
    1. The Coordinator is responsible for organizing the OAC, serving as the alumni co-chair to the Alumni Relations Advisory Group (ARAG), delegating the other Executive Board responsibilities assigned below to the OAC membership, and acting as its spokesperson when appropriate.

Section II: President-elect, President, and Past President
----------------------------------------------------------
1. The President-elect will serve for three years, progressing through the positions of President-elect, President, and Past President.
1. The President-elect shall assume all duties of the President during his or her absence. 
1. The President will serve as chairperson for the OAC and OAA. 
1. The President is responsible for calling, presiding over, and creating agendas for the OAC.
1. The President is invited and encouraged to take part in the Olin College President’s Council on-campus meetings. If present at these meetings, the President is responsible for travel expenses. 
1. The Past President is the immediate past President of the OAC.
1. The Past President serves as the co-chair to the ARAG.  
1. An alumnus currently serving as one of the three Presidential officers is not permitted to run for President.

Section III: Treasurer
----------------------
1. The responsibilities of the Treasurer will include oversight of funds contributed to the Alumni Association and intended for projects or initiatives not commonly considered philanthropic to Olin College. 
1. The Treasurer will serve for two years. 
1. An alumnus can serve no more than two consecutive terms as Treasurer. 

Section IV: Secretary
---------------------
1. The responsibilities of the Secretary include recording and publishing meeting notes in a form accessible to all OAA members, and coordinating alumni communication and maintaining the alumni directory with the Office of Parent and Alumni Relations. 
1. The Secretary will serve for two years. 
1. An alumnus can serve no more than two consecutive terms as Secretary. 

Section V	
---------
Once formed, the Executive Board will serve as ex-officio alumni representatives to the ARAG.

Section VI
----------
When the College requires an alumnus for a committee or other position, they should select the alumnus in meaningful consultation with the Executive Board if possible.


Article V: Elections, Resignation and Impeachment
=================================================

Section I: Process
------------------
1. Elections will be administered by the OAC President or their designee.
1. Elections will take place by secret electronic ballot.
1. Elections will be announced and allow candidates to apply at least two weeks prior to the start of the election.
1. Elections will have voting periods of at least two weeks.
1. Regular elections will begin one week following Alumni Weekend.
1. Transitions between incoming and outgoing officials will occur directly following the announcement of the election results.

Section II: Class Representatives
--------------------------------
1. Initially, each set of Class Representatives will be elected by that year’s graduating seniors, in a special election beginning on the last day of classes at Olin College. Only the OAA members of the graduating class may vote in subsequent elections for that class’s Class Representatives.
1. The position of Class Representative for a given class will consist of three year terms until 15 years following the class’s graduation, at which time the terms will lengthen to 5 years.
1. There is no limit on the number of terms that a given alumnus can serve as a Class Representative. 
1. In order to impeach one of their Class Representatives, any alumnus of that class may submit an electronic impeachment petition to the OAC that bears the electronic signatures of at least 60% of the class. The impeached Class Representative is immediately removed from office.
1. Any member of the OAC may also submit a proposal to impeach a Class Representative. This must be announced to the class that elected the Representative at least two weeks prior to the vote. The class may overrule the impeachment proposal with a petition bearing electronic signatures of at least 50% of the class. A three-quarters voting quorum of the OAC is required for the impeachment vote to take place, and the member up for impeachment may not vote or be considered for quorum. Impeachment will occur if approved by at least 90% of the voting OAC members. The impeached Representative is immediately removed from office.
1. Any Class Representative may resign by submitting a letter to the OAC President.
1. If a Class Representative is impeached, resigns, is elected President, or is unable to perform his or her duties, then the OAC must organize a special election within a month of the vacancy to replace that representative. Newly elected officers will take office immediately and serve the remainder of the current term.

Section III: Executive Board
---------------------------
1. The Board shall be elected by the OAA.  
1. An alumnus can run for any open Executive Board position.  The candidate receiving the most votes as President-elect will be installed as the next President-elect and removed from the Executive Board candidate pool for any additional positions.  Next, the same will be done to select the Treasurer and finally the Secretary.  
1. Each year a new President-elect is elected. That individual will serve one year as President-elect and the subsequent two years as President, and Past President respectively. 
1. Secretary and Treasurer position for 2-year terms, which will be staggered such that they are elected during alternate years. 
1. In order to impeach a member of the Executive Board, any alumnus may submit an electronic impeachment petition to the OAC that bears the electronic signatures of at least 25% of the OAA. The impeached Executive Board member is immediately removed from office.
1. Any member of the OAC may also submit a proposal to impeach a member of the Executive Board. This must be announced to the OAA as a whole at least two weeks prior to the vote. The OAA may overrule the impeachment proposal with a petition bearing electronic signatures of at least 25% of its membership. A three-quarters voting quorum of the OAC is required for the impeachment vote to take place, and the member up for impeachment may not vote or be considered for quorum. Impeachment will occur if approved by at least two-thirds of the voting OAC members. The impeached Executive Board member is immediately removed from office.
1. Any member of the Executive Board may resign by submitting a letter to the OAC President, except for the OAC President who must submit a letter of resignation to the OAC. 
1. If a President-elect, Treasurer or Secretary is impeached, resigns, or is unable to perform his or her duties, then a special election shall be held within a month of the vacancy to replace that position. The duties of the Treasure or Secretary will be temporarily borne by the President-elect until the special election occurs. 
1. If a Past President is impeached, resigns, or is unable to perform his or her duties, the position is left vacant for the duration of the term. Any responsibilities of the Past President are delegated to the President for the duration of the term.  
1. If the President is impeached, resigns, or is unable to perform his or her duties, then the President-elect shall become President and a special election shall be held within a month of the vacancy to elect a new President-elect. Newly elected officers will take office immediately and serve the remainder of the current term.


Article VI: Meetings
====================

Section I
---------
The OAC will meet on campus once each fall in conjunction with the Alumni Weekend or a similar event, and will conduct one meeting via teleconference in the spring. It is expected that OAC members will attend the on-campus meeting. Travel expenses will be the responsibility of the members.

Section II
----------
Special meetings, telephone calls or e-mail communications will be used to conduct business outside of the spring and fall meetings mentioned above. Travel expenses will be the responsibility of the members.

Section III
-----------
The quorum for OAC meetings shall be a majority of the OAC membership.


Article VII: Decision Making / Voting
=====================================

Section I
---------
Each member of the OAC shall be entitled one vote, except for the OAC President who shall only vote in case of a tie. 

Section II
----------
The Executive Board operates on consensus. If the Executive Board cannot come to an agreement, then the issue will be brought to the OAC who will conduct a majority vote.


Article VIII: Amendments
========================

Section I
---------
Any member of the OAC may propose an amendment to the OAC Charter or By-Laws by submitting it to the OAC President. This amendment shall be presented, discussed and then voted on by the OAC at the next possible meeting. The proposed amendment must be disseminated to the OAA for comment at least two weeks prior to the meeting at which the vote is expected to occur. A two-thirds quorum of OAC members must vote in order for the vote to count. OAC members may vote in the meeting or electronically up until the time when the in-meeting vote occurs. If quorum is not achieved, the amendment must be re-introduced for a future meeting. A three-quarters majority of those voting is required to ratify the amendment. If an amendment is made, it must be announced to the OAA within one week of ratification as well as recorded in the posted OAC minutes. The amended Charter or By-Laws must also be posted in a timely manner.
